---
slug: /release-notes/v0.18.11
title: v0.18.11
sidebar_position: 29
---
# metal-stack v0.18.11
See original release note at [https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.18.11](https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.18.11)
## General
* [Gardener v1.89](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/releases/tag/v1.89.0)
## Required Actions
* Make sure that all Gardener clusters are running at least Kubernetes 1.25 prior to rolling out this release.
* It is required to override the Gardener Node Agent (GNA) container image with the an image built from our fork. It includes important backports without which the gardener-node-agent cannot run. The resulting image vector needs to include:
  ```yaml
  gardener_image_vector_overwrite:
  - name: gardener-node-agent
    sourceRepository: github.com/metal-stack/gardener
    repository: r.metal-stack.io/gardener/node-agent
    tag: 8b2d6473e
    resourceId:
      name: node-agent
  ```
  Unfortunately, this will be necessary for every release until Gardener 1.94. Deactivating the GNA explicitly through deployment is untested and not recommended from our side. 

* Make sure to deploy the partition services for isolated clusters before reconciling shoots with the new Gardener version in case you utilize this feature.

## Component Releases
### metal-roles v0.12.11
* Add additional volume mounts for metal-bmc metal-core and pixiecore (metal-stack/metal-roles#307) @simcod
* SAG interfaces: Allow arp updates (metal-stack/metal-roles#309) @mreiger
* Add node-agent to oci-mirror. (metal-stack/metal-roles#308) @Gerrit91
### os-metal-extension v0.8.1
* Compatibility with g/g 1.89 GNA (metal-stack/os-metal-extension#46) @majst01
* Move registry mirrors into `certs.d` directory. (metal-stack/os-metal-extension#49) @Gerrit91
### metal-api v0.33.0
* Compact BGPFilter to save switch memory (metal-stack/metal-api#559) @majst01
* chore(mod): bump metal-lib (metal-stack/metal-api#558) @vknabel
### go-ipam v1.14.7
* Update to go-1.23 and dependencies, also migrate to distroless (metal-stack/go-ipam#164) @majst01
* Simplify logging (metal-stack/go-ipam#166) @majst01
* Fix new linter warnings (metal-stack/go-ipam#165) @majst01
### helm-charts v0.4.7
* increase ipam resilience (metal-stack/helm-charts#98) @qrnvttrl
### metal-bmc v0.5.4
* Avoid starvation of NSQ event processing (metal-stack/metal-bmc#66) @mwindower
### gardener-extension-provider-metal v0.24.5
* Revendor g/g v1.89. (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#412) @Gerrit91
### duros-controller v0.10.0
* Update lb-csi driver to 1.16.0 which fixes some mount issues (metal-stack/duros-controller#81) @majst01
# Merged Pull Requests
This is a list of pull requests that were merged since the last release. The list does not contain pull requests from release-vector-repositories.

The fact that these pull requests were merged does not necessarily imply that they have already become part of this metal-stack release.

* Bump releases to version v0.18.10 (metal-stack/docs#208) @metal-robot[bot]
* Update all deps and fix a docker CVE (metal-stack/oci-mirror#6) @majst01
* Bump metal-api to version v0.33.0 (metal-stack/metal-python#123) @metal-robot[bot]
* Bump metal-api to version v0.33.0 (metal-stack/metal-go#176) @metal-robot[bot]
* fix(cache): retry period (metal-stack/security#50) @vknabel
* update to alpine 3.20 (metal-stack/chrony#3) @mwennrich
* Update to go 1.23.0 (metal-stack/builder#78) @majst01
* Add lightos v3.10.1 support (metal-stack/duros-go#38) @majst01
* Update go, dependencies and fix linter warnings (metal-stack/firewall-controller#188) @majst01
* Update go, k8s, gh actions (metal-stack/metallb-health-sidecar#1) @majst01
* Next release (metal-stack/releases#190) @metal-robot[bot]