---
slug: /release-notes/v0.22.11
title: v0.22.11
sidebar_position: 9
---
# metal-stack v0.22.11
See original release note at [https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.22.11](https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.22.11)
## General
* [Gardener v1.130](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/releases/tag/v1.130.0)
   * Please note that this release contains the gardener-apiserver built from the metal-stack fork in order to prevent the defaulting of worker machine images by Gardener. This will be resolved upstream with https://github.com/gardener/gardener/pull/13785. If you do not use short image versions in the `CloudProfile` you can also use the upstream version of the gardener-apiserver.
* Some control plane database minor version upgrades for Postgres databases. 
## Breaking Changes
* Migrated to connectrpc simple, you need to adjust your client implementation. (metal-stack/go-ipam#188)
## Noteworthy
* The `metal-control-plane` helm chart can now use Gateway API resources in place of `Ingress` resources and TCP port exposure using `ingress-nginx`. This marks the start of our journey to deprecate the use of `Ingress`.
  
  What does that mean for you? Right now, nothing. You will not have to move to Gateway API right now and we will support both `Ingress` and Gateway API during a transition period. During the next releases we will wire up the missing pieces and document a migration process. Now is a great time to familiarize yourself with Gateway API to ensure a smooth transistion
  
  If you want to check on the progress or leave feedback, take a look at our umbrella issue here: https://github.com/metal-stack/metal-roles/issues/562 ([release notes](https://github.com/metal-stack/helm-charts/releases/tag/v0.6.1))
## Component Releases
### metal-roles v0.20.4
* Apply yaml fixes from ansible-lint. (metal-stack/metal-roles#531) @Gerrit91
### helm-charts v0.6.1
* Use grpc readiness probe for ipam (metal-stack/helm-charts#158) @majst01
* feat(metal-control-plane): add GatewayAPI support (metal-stack/helm-charts#156) @l0wl3vel
### metal-ccm v0.9.10
* Health probe. Again. (metal-stack/metal-ccm#128) @l0wl3vel
* feat: expose healthiness and readiness checks against metal-api (metal-stack/metal-ccm#124) @l0wl3vel
* Update actions workflows and dependencies. (metal-stack/metal-ccm#123) @Gerrit91
* Go 1.26 (metal-stack/metal-ccm#122) @majst01
* Go 1.26 (metal-stack/metal-ccm#121) @majst01
### csi-driver-lvm v0.9.0
* Support mount options from the storage class (metal-stack/csi-driver-lvm#155) @tacho
* Fix existing VG not being activated (metal-stack/csi-driver-lvm#153) @tacho
* Add luks encryption support (metal-stack/csi-driver-lvm#148) @chbmuc
* Bump google.golang.org/grpc from 1.79.1 to 1.79.3 in the go_modules group across 1 directory (metal-stack/csi-driver-lvm#151) @[dependabot[bot]](https://github.com/apps/dependabot)
* Go 1.26 (metal-stack/csi-driver-lvm#149) @majst01
### gardener-extension-csi-driver-lvm v0.1.10
* Add LUKS encryption support with encrypted StorageClass variants (metal-stack/gardener-extension-csi-driver-lvm#25) @chbmuc
### go-ipam v1.15.0
* Remove grpc health probe from image (metal-stack/go-ipam#195) @majst01
* Use existing context where possible (metal-stack/go-ipam#194) @majst01
* Migrate to connect-simple (metal-stack/go-ipam#188) @majst01
* Update go modules and gh actions (metal-stack/go-ipam#192) @majst01
* Bump google.golang.org/grpc from 1.78.0 to 1.79.3 in the go_modules group across 1 directory (metal-stack/go-ipam#191) @[dependabot[bot]](https://github.com/apps/dependabot)
* Update to go-1.26 (metal-stack/go-ipam#190) @majst01
### metal-apiserver v0.2.1
* Upgrade go-ipam to v1.15 (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#204) @majst01
* Adopt to api changes where networktype and nattype are not optional (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#192) @majst01
* remove context.background where possible, do not log passwords (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#191) @majst01
* Switch tests datacenter (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#167) @iljarotar
* Try metal lib auditing refactoring (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#186) @majst01
* Prevent race access, terminate goroutine on exit (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#190) @majst01
### gardener-extension-provider-metal v0.27.8
* Adjustments to new metal-ccm health probe. (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#498) @Gerrit91
* set correct netpol namespace (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#495) @iljarotar
# Merged Pull Requests
This is a list of pull requests that were merged since the last release. The list does not contain pull requests from release-vector-repositories.

The fact that these pull requests were merged does not necessarily imply that they have already become part of this metal-stack release.

* update ubuntu kernel to v6.12.89 (metal-stack/metal-images#409) @mwennrich
* Update postgres (metal-stack/releases#290) @majst01
* chore: add alloy image (metal-stack/releases#287) @ma-hartma
* chore: add alloy helm chart (metal-stack/releases#288) @ma-hartma
* Bump releases to version v0.22.10 (metal-stack/website#269) @metal-robot[bot]
* Replace unmaintained lunr plugin with local search (metal-stack/website#266) @vknabel
* docs(blog): hack the garden no. 8 (metal-stack/website#270) @vknabel
* fix(blog): hack the garden typos (metal-stack/website#271) @vknabel
* chore(deps-dev): bump lint-staged from 16.4.0 to 17.0.5 (metal-stack/website#268) @dependabot[bot]
* Next release (metal-stack/releases#291) @metal-robot[bot]