---
slug: /release-notes/v0.22.12
title: v0.22.12
sidebar_position: 7
---
# metal-stack v0.22.12
See original release note at [https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.22.12](https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.22.12)
## General
* [Gardener v1.131](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/releases/tag/v1.131.0)
   * Please note that this release contains the gardener-apiserver built from the metal-stack fork in order to prevent the defaulting of worker machine images by Gardener. This will be resolved upstream with https://github.com/gardener/gardener/pull/13785. If you do not use short image versions in the `CloudProfile` you can also use the upstream version of the gardener-apiserver.
## Component Releases
### helm-charts v0.6.2
* Bump csi-driver-lvm chart to v0.9.0. (metal-stack/helm-charts#159) @Gerrit91
### gardener-extension-ontap v0.2.18
* provide snapshot controller (metal-stack/gardener-extension-ontap#91) @Honigeintopf
### metal-bmc v0.7.2
* Update actions workflows and dependencies. (metal-stack/metal-bmc#94) @Gerrit91
### metal-roles v0.20.5
* Adaptions for g/g v1.131. (metal-stack/metal-roles#600) @Gerrit91
* Fix typos in gardener-projects role README (metal-stack/metal-roles#598) @simcod
### gardener-extension-provider-metal v0.27.9
* Add missing RBAC for metrics endpoint of metal-ccm. (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#499) @Gerrit91
* Build with go 1.26 and run go fix. (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#500) @Gerrit91
### virtual-garden-kubeconfig-refresher v0.1.3
* Updates. (metal-stack/virtual-garden-kubeconfig-refresher#2) @Gerrit91
# Merged Pull Requests
This is a list of pull requests that were merged since the last release. The list does not contain pull requests from release-vector-repositories.

The fact that these pull requests were merged does not necessarily imply that they have already become part of this metal-stack release.

* Next release (metal-stack/releases#292) @metal-robot[bot]