---
slug: /release-notes/v0.22.18
title: v0.22.18
sidebar_position: 2
---
# metal-stack v0.22.18
See original release note at [https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.22.18](https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.22.18)
## General
* [Gardener v1.137](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/releases/tag/v1.137.0)
## Noteworthy
* The backup-restore-sidecar can now be parametrized to work with ONTAP-provided S3 storage. ([release notes](https://github.com/metal-stack/metal-roles/releases/tag/v0.26.1))
## Required Actions
* The metal-apiserver deployment from **[MEP-4](https://metal-stack.io/community/MEP-4-multi-tenancy-for-the-metal-api) is now enabled by default**. It will run in parallel with the metal-api until all clients have been migrated to the metal-stack V2 API. This process will take place over the course of many releases, allowing time for migration.
  
  For the metal-apiserver, it is required to add the [Valkey](https://github.com/metal-stack/metal-roles/tree/master/control-plane/roles/valkey) into your control plane deployment playbook.
  
  In addition, we always deploy [Zitdadel](https://github.com/metal-stack/metal-roles/tree/master/control-plane/roles/zitadel) into the control plane for authentication, in order to provide a working OIDC flow without external dependencies. While this is not strictly required, we advise installing Zitadel and setting up a federation with external OIDC providers if necessary. We do this because it allows us to easily test the setup locally in the mini-lab, and we therefore keep it identical in real environments. 
  
  You can check out the mini-lab to see how to set up Valkey and Zitadel.

  For Zitadel and the metal-apiserver **we recommend to expose them through [Gateway API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/gateway/)**. More detailed information will be added to the release notes of this release in the next couple of days.
  
  The metal-apiserver does not yet provide a stable API, so many things are still subject to change. While it makes sense to prepare for the migration of your clients, we advise against doing this immediately with this release, but rather waiting for a few more releases until the API has stabilized. We welcome your feedback at any time! (metal-stack/metal-roles#652)

* For operators who already deployed metal-apiserver prior to this release: The field `metal_apiserver_admin_subjects` was removed and should be cleaned up. Admins are now managed through the provider tenant that is automatically ensured on startup of the metal-apiserver. ([release notes](https://github.com/metal-stack/metal-roles/releases/tag/v0.26.0))

## Component Releases
### metal-roles v0.27.2
* ProviderTenant adoptions for metal-apiserver (metal-stack/metal-roles#642) @majst01
* ONTAP compatibility v2 (metal-stack/metal-roles#633) @simcod
* Enable metal-apiserver deployment by default. (metal-stack/metal-roles#652) @Gerrit91
* ansible-lint: Fix risky-file-permissions (metal-stack/metal-roles#643) @Gerrit91
* Rename zitadel-init to zitadel-metal-init. (metal-stack/metal-roles#654) @Gerrit91
* Utilize reusable workflow from actions-common. (metal-stack/metal-roles#653) @Gerrit91
* Add new toggles for ingress rule deployment (metal-stack/metal-roles#656) @Gerrit91
* Fix partition directory permissions partially wrong (metal-stack/metal-roles#657) @Gerrit91
* Also enable zitadel login gateway httproute. (metal-stack/metal-roles#655) @Gerrit91
### helm-charts v0.7.4
* ProviderTenant adoptions for metal-apiserver (metal-stack/helm-charts#165) @majst01
* Passing Splunk HEC token to metal-apiserver is missing. (metal-stack/helm-charts#168) @Gerrit91
* Add toggles to conditionally deploy ingress rules (metal-stack/helm-charts#169) @Gerrit91
* Do not forget to conditionally set tls hostnames. (metal-stack/helm-charts#170) @Gerrit91
### metal-apiserver v0.6.3
* Add machine-roles handling (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#236) @majst01
* Fix some AI findings (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#235) @majst01
* Fix token create bug. (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#222) @Gerrit91
* Inherit admins from provider tenant membership (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#225) @majst01
* Write rate-limiter-interceptor tests (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#234) @majst01
* Machine Issues (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#230) @majst01
* Admin Tenant add-member (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#229) @majst01
* Project query in-line with tenant query (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#232) @majst01
* Fmt code (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#233) @majst01
* Implement `UpdateLabelStrategy` for update labels. (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#179) @Gerrit91
* Add timestamp to audit entry. (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#241) @Gerrit91
* Adapt to v0.2.2 API. (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#240) @Gerrit91
* Remove creation of default project for provider tenant. (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#244) @Gerrit91
* Adopt to Labels Update Strategie Patch (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#243) @majst01
### virtual-garden-kubeconfig-refresher v0.1.4
* Dependency updates. (metal-stack/virtual-garden-kubeconfig-refresher#4) @Gerrit91
* Generic Garden Cluster Access (metal-stack/virtual-garden-kubeconfig-refresher#3) @simcod
### api v0.2.2
* Add `UpdateLabelStrategy` option to label updates. (metal-stack/api#121) @Gerrit91
* Fix typo. (metal-stack/api#147) @Gerrit91
### zitadel-init v0.3.4
* Fix application already exists status code changed. (metal-stack/zitadel-init#10) @Gerrit91
**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/metal-stack/zitadel-init/compare/v0.3.3...v0.3.4
# Merged Pull Requests
This is a list of pull requests that were merged since the last release. The list does not contain pull requests from release-vector-repositories.

The fact that these pull requests were merged does not necessarily imply that they have already become part of this metal-stack release.

* Bump releases to version v0.22.17 (metal-stack/website#308) @metal-robot[bot]
* Update to changed tenant and project query (metal-stack/cli#34) @majst01
* e2e test framework moved to generic cli. (metal-stack/cli#28) @Gerrit91
* Add size API cmds. (metal-stack/cli#35) @Gerrit91
* chore(deps): bump the other-dependencies group with 3 updates (metal-stack/website#304) @dependabot[bot]
* chore(deps): bump @scalar/api-reference-react from 0.9.47 to 0.9.50 in the docusaurus-dependencies group across 1 directory (metal-stack/website#303) @dependabot[bot]
* chore(deps): bump actions/checkout from 6 to 7 in the actions group across 1 directory (metal-stack/website#311) @dependabot[bot]
* Adaption for api v0.2.2. (metal-stack/cli#36) @Gerrit91
* Add `container-build.yaml` action. (metal-stack/actions-common#11) @Gerrit91
* chore(deps): bump the other-dependencies group with 4 updates (metal-stack/website#314) @dependabot[bot]
* Add `oci-release-artifact.yaml` action (metal-stack/actions-common#13) @Gerrit91
* chore: update index of MEPs (metal-stack/website#313) @vknabel
* Adopt to labels update strategie (metal-stack/cli#37) @majst01
* Update release drafter configuration. (metal-stack/.github#5) @Gerrit91
* Update tailscale and debian and ubuntu kernels (metal-stack/metal-images#424) @majst01
* Next release (metal-stack/releases#304) @metal-robot[bot]