---
slug: /release-notes/v0.22.9
title: v0.22.9
sidebar_position: 10
---
# metal-stack v0.22.9
See original release note at [https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.22.9](https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.22.9)
## General
* [Gardener v1.128](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/releases/tag/v1.128.0)
   * Please note that this release contains the gardener-apiserver built from the metal-stack fork in order to prevent the defaulting of worker machine images by Gardener. This will be resolved upstream with https://github.com/gardener/gardener/pull/13785. If you do not use short image versions in the `CloudProfile` you can also use the upstream version of the gardener-apiserver.
## Required Actions
* Update existing zitadel-init configurations in your deployment (`zitadel_init_config`) to use `redirect_uris` instead of `redirect_uri`. (metal-stack/zitadel-init#9)
* If during reconciles of old shoots the following shoot error occurs: `ScrapeConfig.monitoring.coreos.com "shoot-blackbox-exporter-k8s-service-check is invalid: spec.kubernetesSDConfigs[0].role: Unsupported value: "service"`, it is enough to edit the `ScrapeConfig` in the shoot namespace in the `Seed` and correct `service` to `Service`.
## Component Releases
### metal-roles v0.20.1
* Use new OCI helm-charts from metal-stack. (metal-stack/metal-roles#582) @Gerrit91
* Add param for deploying `ClusterRoleBinding`s into the virtual garden. (metal-stack/metal-roles#585) @Gerrit91
### api v0.0.61
* Machine create refinements (metal-stack/api#119) @majst01
* Map validations (metal-stack/api#122) @majst01
### node-init v0.1.8
* Update actions workflows and dependencies. (metal-stack/node-init#20) @Gerrit91
* feat: configure HTTP transport for persistent connections to kube-apiserver (metal-stack/node-init#19) @mwennrich
* include sbom in container image (metal-stack/node-init#17) @mac641
### zitadel-init v0.3.3
* Allow configuration of multiple redirect URIs. (metal-stack/zitadel-init#9) @Gerrit91
# Merged Pull Requests
This is a list of pull requests that were merged since the last release. The list does not contain pull requests from release-vector-repositories.

The fact that these pull requests were merged does not necessarily imply that they have already become part of this metal-stack release.

* More documentation for release-drafter action. (metal-stack/actions-common#6) @Gerrit91
* Provide common helm-chart action. (metal-stack/actions-common#7) @Gerrit91
* chore: blog maintainers (metal-stack/website#253) @vknabel
* Bump releases to version v0.22.8 (metal-stack/website#252) @metal-robot[bot]
* Remove unnecessary braces from if conditions. (metal-stack/actions-common#9) @Gerrit91
* Fix issue comments only working on pull requests. (metal-stack/metal-robot#108) @Gerrit91
* chore(deps): bump postcss from 8.5.9 to 8.5.10 in the other-dependencies group (metal-stack/website#251) @dependabot[bot]
* chore(deps): bump the docusaurus-dependencies group with 2 updates (metal-stack/website#250) @dependabot[bot]
* Allow repo maintainers to run comment actions. (metal-stack/metal-robot#109) @Gerrit91
* Support more chassistypes (metal-stack/go-hal#86) @majst01
* Improved test coverage (metal-stack/cli#29) @AnnaSchreiner
* Enter serial console (metal-stack/go-hal#87) @majst01
* Remove security.User from auditing and split http/grpc/connect (metal-stack/metal-lib#206) @majst01
* chore(ci): actions-common (metal-stack/metal-robot#110) @vknabel
* chore(deps): bump the docusaurus-dependencies group with 2 updates (metal-stack/website#254) @dependabot[bot]
* chore(deps): bump the other-dependencies group across 1 directory with 5 updates (metal-stack/website#255) @dependabot[bot]
* Migrate to web-only UI (metal-stack/metal-ui#11) @ostempel
* Dependency updates. (metal-stack/cli#30) @Gerrit91
* adjust metal-ui skill and remove tauri leftovers (metal-stack/metal-ui#12) @ostempel
* Add rule template. (metal-stack/website#256) @Gerrit91
* Next release (metal-stack/releases#284) @metal-robot[bot]