---
slug: /release-notes/v0.22.14
title: v0.22.14
sidebar_position: 2
---
# metal-stack v0.22.14
See original release note at [https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.22.14](https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.22.14)
## General
* [Gardener v1.133](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/releases/tag/v1.133.0)
   * ⚠️ Be aware that this version of Gardener does not support garden, seed, or shoot clusters with Kubernetes versions <= 1.29.
   * Please note that this release contains the gardener-apiserver built from the metal-stack fork in order to prevent the defaulting of worker machine images by Gardener. This will be resolved upstream with https://github.com/gardener/gardener/pull/13785. If you do not use short image versions in the `CloudProfile` you can also use the upstream version of the gardener-apiserver.
## Breaking Changes
* With the introduction of the os-installer, provisioning machines with OS images older than `debian-12`, or ubuntu `24.04` is no longer supported. In addition to that, the image builder contract has changed and does not rely on `install.sh` anymore. If you build your own OS images, you can find more information in the metal-stack docs. (metal-stack/metal-hammer#181)
## Noteworthy
* With this release we introduce initial support for Gateway API in Metal Stack into metal-roles as well with the goal of removing our dependency on `Ingress` and ingress-nginx. For now `Ingress` will still be supported but will be removed in a future release.
  
  You can track the Gateway API progress in our umbrella issue: https://github.com/metal-stack/metal-roles/issues/562 (metal-stack/metal-roles#594)
* The new [tenant-apiserver](https://github.com/metal-stack/tenant-apiserver) is now being deployed unconditionally. This microservice will replace the masterdata-api during MEP-4. The two can coexist without any problems. Currently, the new tenant-apiserver is only used when the metal-apiserver is explicitly enabled through deployment. ([release notes](https://github.com/metal-stack/metal-roles/releases/tag/v0.21.3))
## Component Releases
### metal-core v0.16.0
* Fix SetSrcLoopback Config (metal-stack/metal-core#192) @iljarotar
* Bump go.opentelemetry.io/otel from 1.40.0 to 1.41.0 in the go_modules group across 1 directory (metal-stack/metal-core#190) @[dependabot[bot]](https://github.com/apps/dependabot)
* add test for bgp-state parsing ( frr_test.go ) (metal-stack/metal-core#191) @mwennrich
### tenant-apiserver v0.1.0
* Initial Release after masterdata-api move
### api v0.1.1
* Add tenant-apiserver health (metal-stack/api#129) @majst01
* FSL Match and Try is a admin endpoint (metal-stack/api#128) @majst01
* Fix inconsistencies found by Ai, update deps (metal-stack/api#127) @majst01
* Auditing must be specified explicitly now (metal-stack/api#126) @majst01
* Machine State Command (metal-stack/api#132) @majst01
* Update connect-python to v0.10.1 (metal-stack/api#130) @majst01
* Remove alpha stage note. (metal-stack/api#131) @Gerrit91
### helm-charts v0.6.3
* Deploy tenant-apiserver (metal-stack/helm-charts#160) @majst01
### metal-roles v0.21.7
* Deploy tenant-apiserver (metal-stack/metal-roles#608) @majst01
* feat: add gatewayapi support (metal-stack/metal-roles#594) @l0wl3vel
* Fix defaulting for HTTP Route in gardener-cloudprofile role. (metal-stack/metal-roles#610) @Gerrit91
* Gardener adapt new cloudprofile spec. (metal-stack/metal-roles#616) @Gerrit91
* add missing gardener-project/releases/gardener/vpn-client to isolated-cluster images (metal-stack/metal-roles#617) @mwennrich
* Better default for `metal_tenant_apiserver_db_password`. (metal-stack/metal-roles#618) @Gerrit91
### metal-apiserver v0.3.0
* Migrate to tenant-api (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#199) @majst01
* Implement FSL Match (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#200) @majst01
* Better ip create validation (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#198) @majst01
* Fix issues ai found (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#203) @majst01
### metal-hammer v0.15.0
* With apiv2 os installer in chroot (metal-stack/metal-hammer#181) @majst01
### oci-mirror v0.3.1
* skip copying images that already exist in the destination (metal-stack/oci-mirror#23) @mwennrich
### go-ipam v1.15.1
* Try fix otel memory leak (metal-stack/go-ipam#196) @majst01
# Merged Pull Requests
This is a list of pull requests that were merged since the last release. The list does not contain pull requests from release-vector-repositories.

The fact that these pull requests were merged does not necessarily imply that they have already become part of this metal-stack release.

* Bump releases to version v0.22.13 (metal-stack/website#275) @metal-robot[bot]
* update kernels (metal-stack/metal-images#410) @mwennrich
* Debian 13 (metal-stack/metal-images#370) @majst01
* chore(deps): bump @scalar/api-reference-react from 0.9.38 to 0.9.41 in the docusaurus-dependencies group (metal-stack/website#276) @dependabot[bot]
* chore(deps): bump semver from 7.8.0 to 7.8.1 in the other-dependencies group (metal-stack/website#277) @dependabot[bot]
* Make repo ready for release vector. (metal-stack/tenant-api#1) @Gerrit91
* Update to api v0.1.0 (metal-stack/cli#32) @majst01
* Update image builder contract with new os-installer. (metal-stack/website#279) @Gerrit91
* Update docs and github actions (metal-stack/metal-images#413) @majst01
* Update CI part 2 (metal-stack/metal-images#414) @majst01
* Update README (metal-stack/metal-images#405) @simcod
* chore(deps): bump the other-dependencies group with 4 updates (metal-stack/website#281) @dependabot[bot]
* chore(deps): bump the docusaurus-dependencies group with 3 updates (metal-stack/website#280) @dependabot[bot]
* Upgrade Zitadel charts to 10.0.2, Zitadel to v4.14.0 (metal-stack/releases#295) @majst01
* Client namespace interception (metal-stack/tenant-api#4) @Gerrit91
* Next release (metal-stack/releases#294) @metal-robot[bot]