---
slug: /release-notes/v0.19.8
title: v0.19.8
sidebar_position: 13
---
# metal-stack v0.19.8
See original release note at [https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.19.8](https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.19.8)
## General
* [Gardener v1.105](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/releases/tag/v1.105.0)
## Required Actions
* As `eu.gcr.io` is shutting down we offer operators the possibility to point the virtual garden ETCD images to `ghcr.io/metal-stack`. This will be done automatically through the release vector and will be removed as soon as migrated to the Gardener Operator. (metal-stack/metal-roles#376)
## Noteworthy
* As with g/g v1.105 the `VPAForETCD` feature gate gets enabled unconditionally it is advised to use high-availability for shoots to prevent unavailability of the ETCD during scaling. For the shooted seeds this can be configured by setting the new field `gardener_shooted_seed.high_availability_control_plane` to either `node` or `zone`. (metal-stack/metal-roles#375)
* The ports used by the extension can now be specified via helm values. (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#445)
## Component Releases
### firewall-controller-manager v0.5.1
* Drop support for K8s versions < 1.24 (fix for GKE version). (metal-stack/firewall-controller-manager#68) @Gerrit91
* Fix distroless image build. (metal-stack/firewall-controller-manager#69) @Gerrit91
### metal-roles v0.14.11
* Allow shooted seeds to be deployed with HA control plane. (metal-stack/metal-roles#375) @Gerrit91
* Support gardener-extension-shoot-cert-service v1.45.0 (metal-stack/metal-roles#374) @robertvolkmann
* Use etcd-backup-restore images from ghcr.io. (metal-stack/metal-roles#376) @Gerrit91
### metal-core v0.12.4
* Update go dependencies and alpine image (metal-stack/metal-core#141) @majst01
* Support authentication against Redis (metal-stack/metal-core#137) @robertvolkmann
### os-metal-extension v0.8.4
* Revendor g/g v1.105. (metal-stack/os-metal-extension#52) @Gerrit91
### duros-controller v0.11.4
* Update to lightos v3.13 (metal-stack/duros-controller#88) @majst01
* Add missing permission to snapshot controller. (metal-stack/duros-controller#89) @Gerrit91
### metal-api v0.39.9
* Allow less than three NTP servers (metal-stack/metal-api#607) @robertvolkmann
* Pass error callback function to auditing http filter. (metal-stack/metal-api#606) @Gerrit91
### gardener-extension-provider-metal v0.25.6
* Fix no default storage class when csi-lvm is disabled. (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#443) @Gerrit91
* Again allow setting no default storage class explicitly. (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#444) @Gerrit91
### go-ipam v1.14.9
* Update go, modules and buf (metal-stack/go-ipam#172) @majst01
# Merged Pull Requests
This is a list of pull requests that were merged since the last release. The list does not contain pull requests from release-vector-repositories.

The fact that these pull requests were merged does not necessarily imply that they have already become part of this metal-stack release.

* Bump releases to version v0.19.7 (metal-stack/docs#247) @metal-robot[bot]
* Bump gardener-extension-shoot-cert-service to v1.45.0 (metal-stack/releases#216) @robertvolkmann
* feat: add support for groups when roles are missing (metal-stack/security#55) @vknabel
* Update firewall and ubuntu to kernel 6.12.12, debian to 6.1.0-31 (metal-stack/metal-images#280) @majst01
* Bump gardener-extension-shoot-dns-service to v1.53.0 (metal-stack/releases#215) @robertvolkmann
* feat: use security memberships (metal-stack/metal-lib#166) @vknabel
* Implement audit backend for TimescaleDB. (metal-stack/metal-lib#151) @Gerrit91
* Update to lightos v3.13 (metal-stack/duros-go#42) @majst01
* Bump metal-api to version v0.39.8 (metal-stack/metal-python#143) @metal-robot[bot]
* Bump metal-api to version v0.39.8 (metal-stack/metal-go#198) @metal-robot[bot]
* Allow passing a callback function for error handling in auditing filter. (metal-stack/metal-lib#164) @Gerrit91
* Update to go-1.24 (metal-stack/builder#81) @majst01
* Make the repository generic (metal-stack/metal-apiserver#2) @majst01
* Bump metal-api to version v0.39.9 (metal-stack/metal-python#144) @metal-robot[bot]
* Bump metal-api to version v0.39.9 (metal-stack/metal-go#199) @metal-robot[bot]
* Implement infrastructure pause. (metal-stack/cluster-api-provider-metal-stack#70) @Gerrit91
* Next release (metal-stack/releases#217) @metal-robot[bot]