---
slug: /release-notes/v0.21.3
title: v0.21.3
sidebar_position: 6
---
# metal-stack v0.21.3
See original release note at [https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.21.3](https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.21.3)
## General
* [Gardener v1.112](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/releases/tag/v1.112.0)

## Required Actions
* In order to roll out Gardener v1.112, it is required to re-generate the admin kubeconfig of the virtual garden and make the admin user belong to gardener seeds group. Otherwise, the Gardenlets, which currently use this admin kubeconfig, are not able to reconcile the seeds anymore. 

  A template of how to generate the certificate for the admin kubeconfig can be looked up in https://github.com/metal-stack/mini-lab/pull/233. Existing admin kubeconfigs with this approach still work but they cannot modify resources like `ConfigMaps` anymore in the virtual garden.

  Please note, that this approach is only a temporary workaround until we migrated our setup to the Gardener Operator. This is planned after we released support with Gardener v1.113. After this, the admin kubeconfig will be managed differently through the operator and it will also be rotated automatically.

## Component Releases
### node-init v0.1.7
* Wrap erros for better understanding (metal-stack/node-init#16) @majst01
### helm-charts v0.4.23
* increase default memory limit for wal-g-exporter (metal-stack/helm-charts#119) @TLINDEN
### metal-roles v0.15.15
* Configure default value for backup objects to keep in `metal-roles` (metal-stack/metal-roles#370) @simcod
* Create seed cluster role after starting up the virtual garden. (metal-stack/metal-roles#407) @Gerrit91
* Adaptions for g/g v1.111. (metal-stack/metal-roles#406) @Gerrit91
### mini-lab v0.4.4
* Put virtual-garden admin into seeds group. (metal-stack/mini-lab#233) @Gerrit91
* Lower default for backup objects (metal-stack/mini-lab#232) @simcod
* Add metal-apiserver as preview in the mini-lab (metal-stack/mini-lab#231) @majst01
* Fix semver image of ubuntu (metal-stack/mini-lab#229) @majst01
* Build images before running integration tests. (metal-stack/mini-lab#230) @Gerrit91
* fix: warning for missing metalctl hmac auth type (metal-stack/mini-lab#224) @vknabel
* fix: include missing metal auth type in compose.yaml (metal-stack/mini-lab#222) @vknabel
* Add target to transpile ignition userdata (metal-stack/mini-lab#220) @Gerrit91
* Configuring auditing with timescaledb. (metal-stack/mini-lab#217) @Gerrit91
* Dualstack support In Progress (metal-stack/mini-lab#208) @majst01
* Fix routing for flavor CAPMS (metal-stack/mini-lab#218) @robertvolkmann
* Use the same bridge for the mgmt network and external connectivity (metal-stack/mini-lab#216) @robertvolkmann
* Test on latest OS images. (metal-stack/mini-lab#214) @Gerrit91
# Merged Pull Requests
This is a list of pull requests that were merged since the last release. The list does not contain pull requests from release-vector-repositories.

The fact that these pull requests were merged does not necessarily imply that they have already become part of this metal-stack release.

* Bump releases to version v0.21.2 (metal-stack/docs#261) @metal-robot[bot]
* Update node-exporter to v1.9.1 (metal-stack/metal-images#293) @majst01
* Migrate to golangci-lint-v2 (metal-stack/metal-images#294) @majst01
* Remove default project. (metal-stack/api#3) @Gerrit91
* Go 1.24 (metal-stack/nftables-exporter#32) @majst01
* Kernel 6.12.22 for ubuntu and firewall (metal-stack/metal-images#295) @majst01
* Next release (metal-stack/releases#224) @metal-robot[bot]