---
slug: /release-notes/v0.18.12
title: v0.18.12
sidebar_position: 28
---
# metal-stack v0.18.12
See original release note at [https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.18.12](https://github.com/metal-stack/releases/releases/tag/v0.18.12)
## General
* [Gardener v1.90](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/releases/tag/v1.90.0)
## Required Actions
* When deploying this version of metal-stack, operators should add `10.240.0.0/12` to existing tenant super networks into the new field `additionalAnnouncableCIDRs` to the deployment configuration. This may look like this:

  ```yaml
  metal_api_networks:
  - id: tenant-super-network-partition-a
    name: "Project Super Network"
    privatesuper: true
    partitionid: "partition-a"
    additionalAnnouncableCIDRs:
      - 10.240.0.0/12
  ```
  This network was hard-coded by default and is now optional. The metal-api will prevent accidental removal of this network, so it is not possible to break existing route maps if this version gets deployed without adding the field to the deployment. (metal-stack/metalctl#260)
* Contrary to our statement from the last release, it is no longer necessary to use a fork build of the gardener-node-agent. The override can be removed again for this release.
## Component Releases
### gardener-extension-provider-metal v0.24.6
* Remove CCD secret mutation. (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#420) @Gerrit91
* Remove old kubernetes defaultings (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#419) @majst01
* Update metallb to v0.14.8 (metal-stack/gardener-extension-provider-metal#418) @majst01
### metal-ccm v0.9.0
* Update cloud-provider interface, go and fix linter warnings (metal-stack/metal-ccm#98) @majst01
### metal-hammer v0.13.5
* Build with go-1.23 (metal-stack/metal-hammer#135) @majst01
### metal-api v0.34.0
* Make additional announcable cidrs configurable per tenant super network (metal-stack/metal-api#562) @majst01
* Satisfy new linter warnings. (metal-stack/metal-api#564) @Gerrit91
* Satisfy new govet errors (metal-stack/metal-api#561) @majst01
### metalctl v0.16.7
* Support Additional Announcable CIDRs (metal-stack/metalctl#260) @majst01
# Merged Pull Requests
This is a list of pull requests that were merged since the last release. The list does not contain pull requests from release-vector-repositories.

The fact that these pull requests were merged does not necessarily imply that they have already become part of this metal-stack release.

* Review comments (metal-stack/gardener-extension-dns-powerdns#1) @robertvolkmann
* Bump releases to version v0.18.11 (metal-stack/docs#210) @metal-robot[bot]
* Bump metal-api to version v0.34.0 (metal-stack/metal-python#124) @metal-robot[bot]
* Bump metal-api to version v0.34.0 (metal-stack/metal-go#177) @metal-robot[bot]
* Update to go-1.23 and go modules (metal-stack/metal-networker#113) @majst01
* Update to metal-networker which allows ipv6 rules on firewall creation (metal-stack/metal-images#252) @majst01
* Bump github.com/gardener/gardener to 1.85.5 (metal-stack/gardener-extension-dns-powerdns#2) @simcod
* Bump github.com/gardener/gardener to 1.85.5 (metal-stack/gardener-extension-backup-s3#2) @robertvolkmann
* Fixed bug in meilisearch list function (metal-stack/metal-lib#153) @Honigeintopf
* Bump g/g to v1.86.4 (metal-stack/gardener-extension-dns-powerdns#3) @simcod
* Bump g/g to v1.86.4 (metal-stack/gardener-extension-backup-s3#4) @simcod
* Update to go-1.23 (metal-stack/oci-mirror#7) @majst01
* Bump g/g to 1.87.4 (metal-stack/gardener-extension-backup-s3#5) @simcod
* Bump g/g to 1.87.4 (metal-stack/gardener-extension-dns-powerdns#4) @simcod
* Next release (metal-stack/releases#191) @metal-robot[bot]